# Types

A type is a adicional value that C associates with values.

We already saw some types:
```c
double
float
int
size_t
bool 
```

    >All values has a type that is statically determined.

Thus:
    >Possible operations on a value are determined by its type.
    >A values type determines the results of all operations.

## Binary representation and the abstract state machine

The model to represent a given type on a given platform is what we call **binary representation**.

For example: double values, often called *double floating-point* has different precisions between different platform.
Besides, ´size_t´ is determined using the value of MAX_WIDTH in addition with the buffer: 

    > size_t is preferred to type a variable for a cross-platform C program.

    > A type's binary representation determines the results of all operands.

    > A type's binary representation is observable.

This binary representation is still a model and thus an abstract representation in the
sense that it doesn’t completely determine how values are stored in the memory of a
computer or on a disk or other persistent storage device.

As a consequence, all computation is fixed through the values, types and their binary representations.

## Optimization

How a executable will manage to follow the description of the abstract machine is left for the compiler creators.
Most modern C compilers will cheat and make wraps, for example:

```c
x += 5;
x += 7;
```

Will be wrapped to:
```c
x +=17;
```

But, if x is too close to SIZE_MAX, it may cause a overflow. unless, X is a unsigned type (`size_t`) and wrap the number (SIZE_MAX + 1 = 0, SIZE_MAX + 2 = 1, ...)

The compiler will make changes in the execution order sice there is no calls to those values.

    > Type determines optimization opportunities.








