# Basic Types

There is 3 levels of types in C.

- Top Level - Basic types -> They are types created direct on the syntax: `signed`, `int`, `double` are examples.
- Middle Level - Header types -> Types that need headers to be included: `size_t`, `bool` are examples.
- Lower level - Struct types -> Derived types created using `struct` function.

## Basic Types

As we say before, all values in C are translated in numbers. But there is different kind of those.

We have 2 classes with another 2 subclasses each.

**Unsigned Int**, **Signed Int**, **Real floating-point numbers** and **Complex floating-point numbers**.

Their differences are mainly their *precision*.

All types on the table bellow:

```markdown
        | INTEGERS |
bool *
unsigned char *
unsigned short *
unsigned int
unsigned long
unsigned long long
char *
signed char *
signed short *or short* *
signed int *or signed or int*
signed long *or long*
signed long long *or long long*

        | FLOATING POINTS |
- Real
float
double
long double

- Complex
float complex
double complex
long double complex
```

The values with '*' are designed **narrow types**. Before arithmetics, narrow types are promoted to signed int.

    > Each one of four classes (Unsigned, Signed, Complex and Real) have three distinct unpromoted types.

Usinged and signed values can varies their size beetween platforms. For a better portability:

    > Use `size_t` for sizes, cardinates and ordinal numbers.

    > Use `unsigned` for small quantities that cant be negative

    > Use `signed` for small quantities that bear a sign

    > Use `ptrdiff_t` for large differences beetween that bear a sign

For fractional values, we need to use floating-point.

    > Use `double` for floating-point calculations.

    > Use `double` complex for complex floating-point calculations.

## Specifying Values

There is different ways to specify numerical constants or literals:

- Decimal -> Most used on our days. 
- Octal -> Is a sequence of digits starting with 0 and numbers [0-7]. Not so used anymore.
- Hexadecimal -> Starting with a `0x` and sequences of [0-9], and [a-f].
- Binary -> Starting with `0b` and followed by a sequence of 0 or 1.
- Decimal floating-point -> Using expoents on the style `numberEexpoent` (1.7E-25)
- Hexadecimal floating-point -> Starting with `0x` with a `numberPexpoent` number. (0x7.15P-8)
- Integer character literal (char) -> They are used beetween apostrophes ´a´, and means the integer code to the a letter.
- String literals -> Specify text.

Also, there is some consideration about these literals.

> String literals are concatenated.

> Literals can't be negative.

This looks strange. But even when we use '-' in '-7' the '-' is **not considered part of the number**, but its counterpart.

Even the '-' on a expoents is considered part of the floating-point TYPE, not number.

> Decimal interger literals are signed.

> A decimal integer literal has the first of the three signed types that fits (int, long, long long).

For example: We have a **signed** type that has a mininum value of -2^15 and a maximum value of 2^15-1. Thus, the minimum value DOES NOT fit on the
maximum value. Ant thus, it's signed long. So, the expression -2^15 is a signed long and the value on this platform can't be written as a literal.

> The same value can have different types.

**Remember**: Unsigned literals cant be negative. 

To specify a unsigned, we need to add a *suffix:* 'u' or 'U'.

To specify a long or long long, we need to add a *suffix:* 'l/L' or 'll/LL'.

To specify a float, we need to add a *suffix:* 'f' or 'F'.

## Complex Constants

To have support for complex values we need to includ the <complex.h> header, if we use <tgmath.h> it's included already.

There is **macros** that can help to manipulate those literals, sice there is no complex literal on C.

`CMPLX` is used for double values, ex: CMPLX(0.5, 0.5), it holds the real and imaginary parts of the complex value.
We also have `CMPLXL` and `CMPLXF` for long double and float complex values.

Also, we have the macro `I` for imaginary. where I * I = -1 and its `float complex` type.

Usually, macros with one letter are used only in `const` values.





