# Declaration

Before use any identifier we need to **declare them** so the compiler can read and understand it.

Several identifiers we use are already declared by _C standart_, see this snippets:

```c
int main(int, char*[]);
int argc;
[[maybe_unused]] chat+ argv[];
double A[5];
size_t i;
```

All these declarations have a _identifier_: `main, argc, argv, A or i`,
and its _specification of a properties_: `int, site_t, function`.

1. `i` is _**type**_ _size_t_
2. `argc` is type `int`.
3. main is followed by parentheses (arguments) and declares a _function_ of type `int`.
4. A is followed by brackets and has a property of `Array`.
    - Array is a `data type` where contains several data from the same _type_. They are **ordered** and has _indices_, in this case, 0 to 4.
5. argv is also followed by brackets so, its a array too. The `[[maybe_unused]]` is a property that indicates that it's _maybe unused_

Each declaration has a **type** at the start of the statement.

## Variables

The declarations of `argc, A, i` are called **variables**.
Variables are items that allow us to store **values**.

The "anatomy" of a variable is: `Object, Type, Value`

## Header Files

It's the files that when is `included` on a program, tells the compiler its pre-defined variables and it's identifiers.

It's also, a good practice (necessary) to not give tha same Identifier name to a lot of identifiers. The compiler needs to know that variable is used for a specific statements and it's place on computer.

The *scope* is the part of the program where the identifier is *visible* for the compiler.

A *block* is a kind of scope which encapsulates declarations. The `main` is a `file scope` where
it's parameters is given inside () and has a function body {}. If there's a block inside another, we call it a `nested block`.

The main is the most important block because of it's scope, the `file scope`, which means that every declaration inside `main` is global and can be read by the compiler.