# Statements

Statements are instructions that tells the compiler what to do with identifiers defined before.
ex:

```c
for (size_t i = 0, i < 5, i++) {
    printf("element %zu is %g, \t its square isss %g \n"),
    i,
    A[i],
    A[i]*A[i];
}
```
For now, we will see 3 kinds of statements:
- [Iterations](#iterations)
- [Functions Calls](#function-calls)
- [Functions Returns](#function-returns)

#### Iterations
The `for` statement tells the compiler that he have to exectute his block a certain number of times. It's also called `domain interation`.

The compiler will exectute the *secondary block*, which lines is inside the `{...}`., also called `loop body`. In the loop above, we have other 3 parts:
1. The *declaration, definition and initialization* of the loop variable `i`. This process NEED to be made before the loop.

2. A *loop condition*  (i < 5) specifies how long the loop will execute. The condition is verified before each execution of the loop body until the condition becames **false**.

3. The **incremental statement ++i** is executed before each iteration, increasing `i` value in 1.

The interation domain is the set of numbers that contains all the times the second block is executed.
> Domain iterations should be coded with a `for` statement.

In C we usually define the variable inside the `for` statement.

#### Function Calls

Function calls are statements that suspend the exectution of a current function *(usually main)* and then, it's executed.
In our code, we have `printf`.

`printf` is used to make outputs, it's *provides arguments* also. To know, `i, A[i] and A[i]*A[i]` that are calculated and passed to `printf`. Also, `printf` is not capable to change `i` in fact, it's only shows to us its current value. This kind of call is called `call by value`

#### Function Returns

The last statement of a function its `return`. In main, it's the *last statement*. As main is declared by `int` this return **MUST** be a int value. In this case: `EXIT_SUCCESS`.

`printf` also has a return statement, hidden

